Good morning, everyone.
My name is David Hayward,
and I work on the imaging team at Apple.
And I want to talk today about
Core Image and how you can
use it in your application,
give you a good introduction to this
technology we're talking about today,
which is available for
both Mac OS and iOS.
So today we'll be talking about giving
you an introduction to Core Image,
what are the key concepts of Core Image,
and what are the built-in
filters it provides.
Then we'll go into a bit more
detail about how to use the
key classes in Core Image,
some details on the specifics
of the two different platforms
that we provide support for.
And then also we'll be talking about
images and filters and contexts.
After that,
in the second half of our presentation,
Alex will be talking about how to combine
some filters in some really exciting
ways to produce some unusual effects.
Thank you.
So, first off,
introduction to Core Image.
So Core Image is an image
processing framework.
But it's not just useful for images.
It can also be used for
video and for games.
The idea behind it is that you
can use filters to apply per-pixel
operations to an image of data.
So, for example,
in a simple test case here,
we have an original image that we have,
and we want to apply a
sepia tone filter to it.
And it produces a new image as a result.
One of the key flexibilities of
Core Image is that it's very easy
to chain together multiple filters.
So, for example, in addition to applying
sepia tone to an image,
we can apply a hue rotation filter,
which will turn it into
kind of a blue tone effect.
And then we can apply
another effect after that,
which is a contrast enhancing filter, to,
you know, give a new,
more complicated effect.
And it's important to keep this in mind,
that these unique combinations
of filters can produce a
myriad of different options.
While conceptually you can think of
there being an intermediate image
between each of these filters,
one of the key things that
Core Image does to improve performance
is concatenate filter chains
so as to reduce intermediate buffers.
And this is a key thing that
Core Image does to improve performance.
Another key thing that we do to
improve performance is that we
optimize our render graphs at the
time that the actual render occurs.
This allows us to know at the time of
rendering what exact optimizations we
can make and do several enhancements.
For example, the color rotation and the
contrast filters are internally
represented as color matrices.
And these color matrices,
because they're matrices,
can be concatenated.
And this actually further
improves performance and actually
improves precision as well because
we can be doing this matrix
concatenation at high precision.
Thank you.
Another key power of Core Image is
that it's a very easy-to-use
Objective-C API that has a lot
of different flexible inputs.
For example, those images can come
from a variety of sources.
They can come from your iPhoto library.
They can come from a live
video capture session.
They can come from images that you've
created in memory using other techniques.
They can come from JPEGs and
PNG files that you may have on disk.
They can also even come
in from OpenGL textures.
And we'll be talking more about how to
leverage OpenGL and Core Image together
in our second session this afternoon.
We also have very flexible outputs,
and this is also really important.
One type of output you can get out
of Core Image is a CG image ref.
And from a CG image ref,
you can go to a lot of other
different places in the system.
Like,
you can create a UI image from that,
or you can go out to Image.io
to save these images to disk,
or you can use the assets library
to save it into PhotoRoll.
We can also render into an
Eagle layer for OpenGL rendering.
We can render into a CV pixel buffer,
which is useful if you're going
to be using Core Image as part of
an AV Foundation API application.
You can also render to raw
bits or to OpenGL textures.
So again, it's a very easy-to-use
Objective-C library that has very
flexible ways of combining filters and
flexible inputs and flexible outputs.
Part of the magic of Core Image is
that it comes with a large
library of built-in filters.
And a year ago at WWC, before iOS 5,
we only had a few filters
that were available on iOS.
We've greatly increased
that when iOS 5 shipped,
and we've further increased
that significantly with iOS 6.
We now have 93 built-in filters.
Thank you.
I'll talk about them in
a little bit more detail.
Obviously, there's too many just to read
easily on this screen here,
so let me kind of break them
down into different groups.
Core Image has different
categories of filters,
and I'm going to give some highlights
of the different categories.
So first of all,
we have a category of filters which are
for color effects or color adjustments.
And these are ones like the sepia
tone image that I showed earlier,
which allows you to take an
image and apply an operation that
will change the color on that.
Now, conceptually,
a filter like this takes an input
image and produces an output image.
All filters produce an output image.
And it also may have additional
numerical parameters on it,
such as the intensity of the
sepia tone effect in this example.
So a lot of the color adjustment
filters will look like this,
an input image, an output image,
and one or more additional parameters.
Another category of filters that
we have are compositing operations.
And these are operations that
allow you to combine two images,
either using Porter-Duff compositing
or some of the other compositing
modes that are very common in
image editing applications.
I can give an example of that here.
We have a blend mode operation where we
take in our picture of these boats and
a checkerboard image and combine them
into an image where you can see both the
boats and the checkerboards together.
Conceptually,
these filters are interesting
because they actually have two
input images and one output image.
So you can see that now that we've got
an example of a filter with two inputs,
you can see that we can create
complex graphs of filter operations.
Another class of filters are for
adjusting the geometry on an image.
A canonical example of that is
something that allows you to do
an affine transform on an image.
Another example are tiling effects.
These are effects that will
allow you to take an image and
repeat it in interesting ways.
For example,
we have a perspective tile effect,
which will take the original image
and tile it and apply a perspective
transform to it in a shader program.
One thing that's interesting about
this class of filters is it actually
produces an infinite image because
the tiles repeat off to infinity.
So this is one thing that's
unique about the Core Image APIs,
actually is perfectly suited to
handling images of infinite extent.
Bye.
Another class of filters
are distortion effects.
These also affect the location of pixels,
for example, a twirled distortion.
You might be familiar with these if you
use the Photo Booth application on iOS,
which uses Core Image and filters
like these quite frequently.
Another class are blur
and sharpen effects.
And this has been one of our most
requested filters to be added to iOS 6.
Blur is a really critical filter,
and it's also the basis of
many other important filters,
like sharpening filters.
So this isn't focused.
It's just a blurry image.
Another set of effects we have are
what we call some stylizing filters.
And these are just interesting effects.
We have, for example,
highlights and shadows adjustments.
And I've kind of overdriven
it for sake of demo here,
so it kind of produces a fake HDR look
where you brought up the shadows of an
image and brought down the highlights
to create a very stylized image.
Halftone effects.
These are another set of fun effects.
We'll take an image and
produce a two-color image
based on a halftone pattern.
Here's a kind of
traditional halftone screen.
And transition effects.
These are also fun.
These are effects that are very useful
if you're using Core Image in a video
or gaming environment where you want to
transition between two sets of content.
If you have a first scene and a second
scene and you want to do a transition
or blend between those two scenes.
We have here a copy machine effect.
We have two images and we got a
screenshot of it halfway between
in the middle of the transition
where we have a checkerboard and the
boats image and this sort of copy
machine blue highlight that's in the
process of moving across the screen.
Transition effects are sort of
interesting because they take two images,
the input image,
which is the image you start with
at the beginning of the transition,
the target image,
which is the effect that you
want to end up with at the end,
and then a time value,
which ranges from zero to one.
Generators is another
interesting class of filters.
These are filters that
don't take any input images.
They just produce an
algorithmically generated image.
And here's a very dramatic one,
a starburst pattern,
but there's other generators as well.
One important one that we'll show
later today is one that produces a
tiled image of random texture data,
and that's very useful for
interesting effects as well.
Generators, like the Starshine generator,
are interesting because
they have an output image,
just like all other filters,
but there's no input image.
All the inputs are numerical parameters.
And in fact, some of the generators
have no input parameters.
like random,
it just produces a output image.
So these are the 93 filters
that we've added in iOS 6,
and we've taken quite a bit of
care to choose these filters.
The key things we've decided is to make
sure we support both some fun effects,
some effects that are all
performant on a variety of devices,
and also the kind of effects that can
be combined in important ways to produce
additional effects in your application.
All right,
so I'm going to come over to my
device here and show you a new
application we have to demonstrate
all these filters that I was
talking about a few slides ago.
So as I mentioned before,
we have 93 filters,
and we have this great application that
now allows you to explore these filters.
What we can do when we launch the app
here is we just get an empty screen.
So the first thing we're
going to do is go to Filters,
and we're going to add a video source.
So I'm going to go and
add an import video.
And now we can see a picture of myself.
But we want to start seeing
what the filters look like.
So the first thing I'm going
to do is add a filter on here,
and I'm going to add a very
simple one called Color Controls.
And after clicking on that,
I can then go and adjust
all of its input parameters.
So, for example,
we can adjust the saturation way
up to be saturated or all the way
down and make the image grayscale.
Or we can adjust the brightness up
or down or the contrast up or down.
And this kind of gives you an
idea of the frame rates we can
get for a very simple filter.
I go back.
I can now start doing some other filters.
The next one I want to add is a
filter that we'll see a lot today,
which is called Pixlite.
So I can scroll down through
here through all these filters.
Gone too far.
Pixelate.
And as you can already see,
it's pixelated.
We can go in here and
adjust the parameters.
We can make the pixels
really big or really small.
And again, you can see the kind of
frame rate we can get.
All right,
next thing I can show you is sort
of another more interesting effect.
We have here, again,
looking at the image,
we want to apply a filter
called Circular Screen.
Let me find that in the list under C.
Circular screen.
Circular screen is a
halftone type filter.
And in this case,
it produces a circular halftone.
And we can adjust where the
center of it is on the screen,
left and right.
We can also adjust the scale
of it so you can get an idea.
And the sharpness of it, how crisp.
This might be harder to see,
but you get the idea.
But what we have right now is
sort of an interesting image,
but we'd like to be able to combine
maybe another effect on top of this.
And it would be kind of nice
if this had the screen effect,
but also you could still see some of
the color from the video coming through.
And so I'm going to use a
composite operation for that.
I'm going to composite this
effect with the original video.
So to do that, I'm going to add another
instance of the video filter.
And as you can see,
now we're back to just
seeing the video filter.
But the circular screen is
still on the stack of filters.
So now what I next want to do is I want
to do a blend mode between these two.
So I'm going to do a darken blend mode.
Go down here to darken.
And so now hopefully you can see
clearly we have an image that's sort
of the combination of both the video,
its screened version of itself,
and the original color.
And we can go back and adjust the
parameters on any of these earlier
filters in real time and see the effect.
All right, so that's it.
This is an application that will
have available a sample code,
and you'll be able to use
this to try out filters.
One other thing that we'll be showing
you next is how to add your own filters,
which are based up upon
our built-in filters.
And we'll just mention them briefly,
and we'll get to see them in more detail.
We have some very fun effects,
which you'll be able to see in this
application when you get the sample code.
So how can you use
Core Image in your application?
So as I mentioned before,
Core Image is an Objective-C API.
It's very easy to use.
And there's only really
three classes that you need
to understand in Core Image.
The first is the CI Filter class.
In the CI Filter class,
this represents a mutable
object that represents the
effect that you want to produce.
And a filter has a set
of input parameters,
which are either image parameters
or other numerical parameters.
And the result of a filter is that
it produces an output image based on
the current set of input parameters.
The second key class
is the CI image class.
And this is an immutable object that
represents the recipe for an image.
And this CI image object can
either represent a file that comes
directly from an input source
or the output of a CI filter.
The third key class is
the CI context class.
And this is the object which maintains
state and is the object through which
Core Image will render its results.
And the CI context,
one thing to keep in mind is it
can be based on either a CPU or
a GPU-based implementation.
And this is an interesting flexibility
of Core Image and we'll talk about that
in a little bit more detail in a minute.
So as I mentioned earlier,
most of what we're talking about
in this presentation is equally
applicable to iOS and to Mac OS,
and the basic API is very similar,
but there are a couple distinctions
that are important to keep in mind.
First of all, on our set of filters,
on iOS,
we have 93 built-in filters that can be
combined in an infinite number of ways.
On Mac OS, we have a few additional
filters which have additional
performance constraints on them.
We also have the ability to create
developer extendable kernels.
The basic API is identical
between iOS and Mac OS.
The key three classes
which I mentioned earlier,
CI Filter, CI Image,
and CI Context are the same.
On Mac OS,
there's a few additional classes
that you need to be aware of,
CI kernel and CI filter shape,
if you were writing
your own custom kernels.
But again,
the vast majority of applications
can use our built-in filters.
In both cases,
we do render time optimization of the
render graph in order to produce the
best possible performance on device.
And in both cases,
we support both CPU and GPU rendering.
One subtle difference is that on iOS,
our GPU rendering is based
on the OpenGL ES 2.0 API,
whereas on Mac OS,
it's based on the traditional OpenGL API.
So those are the intros.
Let me show you just how in a
few lines of code you can add
Core Image to your application.
It's actually very, very simple.
First thing we want to do is we're
going to create a CI image object,
and we're going to create that
by initializing it with the
contents of a file on disk.
So we call it image with contents of URL.
Second thing we're going to do is
create an instance of a filter object.
In this case, we're going to create a
filter of type sepia tone,
and we're going to set
some parameters on it,
which are the input
image and the parameter,
the amount of the sepia
tone we want to apply.
Third,
we're going to create a context object
that we're going to render through.
And fourth,
we're going to use that context
to produce an output image.
We're first going to ask the
filter for its output image,
and then we're going to
ask the context to create a
CG image from the output image.
And this is one of several ways we
can get outputs out of Core Image.
We'll talk about more of those later.
So now that you kind of see how
easy it is and a few lines of code,
let me talk in a little bit more
detail about how these three
key classes in Core Image work.
Again, CI image, CI filter,
and CI context.
So, some more on CI image.
So a CI image can be
instantiated in several key ways.
The most common is you will
instantiate it from an image
I/O supported file format.
So, for example,
instantiate it with a URL or some data
that represents a JPEG or a PNG or
a TIFF file or whatever the formats
that are supported by image I/O.
We can also instantiate a
CI image from several other key
data types on iOS and Mac OS.
We can create a CI image from a CG image.
We can, on iOS,
create a CI image from a CV pixel buffer.
And on Mac OS, you can create it from
the CV image buffer,
which is slightly different,
and/or an I/O surface.
We can also create a CI image
from an OpenGL texture.
And we'll be talking about
that in much more detail in our
second session after this one.
And lastly,
you can create a CI image from raw
pixel data if you have some other
means of generating an image data.
So one key aspect to think about
with Core Image is color management.
On both iOS and Mac OS,
there is automatic color management
that's involved in Core Image.
On Mac OS, a Core Image can be tagged
with any color space.
And if an image is tagged,
it will be automatically converted
before filters are applied into a linear
working space that all filters work in.
And this allows all the filters to
work in a consistent way regardless
of the input image's color space
or your destination color space.
On iOS,
it's very similar but slightly different.
A CI image can be tagged with device RGB,
which you can think of as
effectively tagging it with sRGB.
And if it is tagged,
then all the pixels are gamma corrected
using the proper sRGB math into a
linear space before filters are applied.
If you use any of the normal ways
of instantiating an image from
either a URL or data via Image.io,
all of this is handled
for you automatically.
However, if you wish to override the
default behavior of Core Image,
you can change the working space
for an image to something else.
One key example of this is if you want to
turn off color management for an image,
you can set the KCI image color space to
override the default to be NS null null.
And that means that no management
will occur for that image if
that's what you want to do.
Another key thing about images we
all know these days is metadata.
When you take a picture on your iPhone,
you're not just capturing
a raster of pixels,
you're also capturing a wealth of
metadata that goes along with that image.
Such as when it was taken,
what type of camera it was taken with,
what the orientation of the camera is,
and where the image was taken.
And this is really handy
information for applications.
And we expose that in CI image
through a filter properties API.
So if you instantiate a
CI image using any of the
Image.io based creation methods,
image with URL or image with data,
you can ask for the filter properties
and you'll get a wealth of information.
You'll get back a dictionary
that returns the same type of
dictionary as you get if you were
to call the Image.io API CG image
source copy properties at index.
If you wish to override
the metadata for an image,
you can do that by specifying when you
instantiate the CI image an optional
value for the KCI image properties.
This might be useful, for example,
if you're creating an image
synthetically and yet you want to have
it be processed and still maintain
some metadata that you've created.
Second thing I want to talk
about is this other key class,
which is CI filters.
We've talked about the
variety of filters,
but let's talk in a bit more detail
about how you use them programmatically.
First, we have a variety of filters,
and we've grown significantly
from iOS 5 to iOS 6.
You can query using the filters
in category API what filters are
currently installed on your system.
Filters are--once you
have the list of filters,
you can instantiate a filter by name.
For example, you can instantiate a filter
with the name CICpiotone.
Another nice API we have
is filter attributes.
This is,
you can think of it as sort of run-time
documentation for how a filter works.
It will give you information about
all the inputs of a given filter.
For example, it'll tell you what the name
of each key for each input is,
the expected data type for each input,
such as whether it's a number
or a vector or an image.
And also it'll give you some
common values for each input,
such as what the default
value is for that parameter,
what the identity value is,
or minimum and maximum.
These kind of properties are
really useful if you want to build
an application that shows some
UI slider for a given parameter,
such as the amount of sepia tone.
You can query the sepia tone filter,
see what the range of the parameter is,
and you can set up your sliders
to present that range to the user.
Once you have instantiated a CI filter,
you can set its parameters using
standard key value coding conventions.
So, for example,
you can set the input image by saying
set value image for key KCI input image.
Similarly,
you can set numerical values as well.
Once you've set all
the inputs on a filter,
you can ask for the output,
and this can also be done
using key value conventions.
For example, you can get value for
key KCI output image key.
On iOS, we have a couple other convenient
ways to do the same thing.
They're semantically equivalent but
have slightly different coding styles.
For example, you can just ask the filter
for its output image,
or you can say filter.outputimage.
One convenient shortcut is you
can actually combine everything
I talked about on this slide
and the previous slide,
instantiating the filter,
setting the parameters,
and asking for its output
into a single line of code.
So we have this helper function here,
which is filter, filter with name, keys,
and values,
which allows you to instantiate a filter,
set its values,
and then right after that you
can ask for its output image.
So this is a very compact
way of doing this,
and for sake of brevity of our code,
we use this a lot in
our slides to follow.
As I alluded to earlier,
you can chain together multiple filters.
So for example,
we can have an input image.
And let's say we want to
apply just one filter first.
We can apply the sepia tone to that.
If we want to apply a second,
it's very easy to chain these together.
All we do is we apply the next filter
as the input for the second filter.
We give the output from
the previous filter.
And one thing to keep in mind is
that there's actually no pixel
processing that has occurred at the
time we've built up the filter graph.
All the actual work of rendering
and optimization is done at the
time you actually ask for the
final render to be requested.
So that brings up a nice segue to talk
about rendering through a CI context.
So CI contexts have a lot of
flexible ways of rendering.
You can render into a CG image
ref for several other types,
or you can render into a UI image
view or into an iPhoto library.
There's several other ways.
We'll talk about some of
these other methods in our
second session this afternoon,
but this morning I want to first talk
about how to render into a CG image ref
and what you can do with that approach.
So let's say, for example,
you want to display the output
of a filter into a UI image view.
This is actually very easy
to do in your application.
All you need to do is
create a CI context,
get the output image
from your filter chain,
render the output image
into a CG image ref,
and then tell the UI image view to
use that CG image ref for its view.
So what does this look like in code?
Again, it's a very brief
amount of code you need.
You just need to instantiate a
CI context with its default values.
asked the filter for its output image.
Tell the context to turn
that image into a CG image.
Create a UI image from that
CG image and tell the view to
use that UI image as a view.
There's actually a
shortcut for all of this,
which is convenient.
We'll talk more about the
performance implications of
this in our second session.
But it's actually very easy on a UI.
You can create a UI image
directly from a CI image,
if you wish.
And then all you need to do
is do that and then tell the
view to use that UI image.
Internally,
this is conceptually equivalent
to the previous slide.
Let's say you want to do something
a little bit more elaborate,
which is you want to save results of
a CI filter into your photo library.
So in this case,
we probably want to create
a CPU-based CI context.
Why?
Well, when you're saving a
full effect on a photo,
photos can actually be quite large,
and those images that we have on our
cameras these days are actually bigger
than the GPU limits of our devices.
So for that reason alone,
we would want to use a CPU context.
Also, when you're saving a photo
into your photo roll,
you might want to be able to have
this done as a background task
so that the user can quit your
application while you're completing
that save into the photo roll.
And in order for this to be done,
you need to be using a CPU-based
CI context rather than a GPU context.
So for both of these reasons,
this is a good idea if you're working
on large images or you want to be
able to have a task be backgrounded.
So how do we do this?
This is just a slight variation
on what we saw two slides ago.
This time we're going
to create a context,
but we're going to specify this time
that we want a software renderer.
And this is very simple.
All we need to do is provide an options
dictionary with the key KCI context,
use software renderer, and specify yes.
Once we have the context,
we're going to do
everything we did as before.
We're going to create an
output image from our filter.
We're going to create a CG image from
that output image using the context.
And then we can use the normal
assets library API to save
that image into the photo roll.
And then a completion callback
will be called when it is complete.
So this is all very simple.
Here's some tips and best practices
that you should be aware of.
One thing to keep in mind is
like all Objective-C objects,
CI images and CI filters are typically
created as auto-released objects.
And this is convenient,
but you should be aware that
these classes in particular
may hold on to large assets.
So in the interest of keeping
your memory usage to a minimum,
you will probably want to be
careful about using auto-release
pools in critical areas so
as to avoid memory pressure.
Another thing to keep in mind
is there's no need to create a
context every time you render.
If you're going to be doing a
lot of renders in a sequence,
you probably want to
create the context once.
There's setup costs associated
with the CI context.
And by doing that,
you can reuse that context again on the
same thread as many times as you wish.
And that will help improve performance.
It's also important to be aware that
both Core Image and Core Animation both
leverage the GPU on our devices.
And because Core Animation is critical
for Core Animation to provide smooth
and fluid user interface animations,
you'll want to take care not
to use Core Image aggressively
on the GPU if you're also doing
Core Animation animations.
So again,
this might be a case where you might
want to use a CPU-based CI context.
Another thing to keep in mind,
as I alluded to a little bit earlier,
is that both CI/CPU and
CI/GPU contexts have limits on the
maximum image that can be processed.
There's an API you can ask once
you have a context instantiated,
which will tell you what the maximum
input image size is and what the
maximum output image size is.
And this can change from device
to device and release to release.
It's also important to remember
that whenever possible,
it's good to use smaller images.
Performance in CI is largely determined
by complexity of your graph and also,
critically, the number of output pixels
that you're asking CI to render.
So asking it to reduce the images'
output image size will have a
direct effect on performance.
One thing to keep in mind is
that there are several convenient
APIs in both Core Graphics and
Image I/O that allow you to either
crop or reduce an input image.
So if you have an 8-megapixel
image but you're only showing
the user a portion of that,
you can create a cropped region
of that and process that very
efficiently using Core Image.
So that's the end of my
first discussion for today.
I'm going to pass the stage over to Alex,
who will be talking in much more detail
about filters and how they can be
combined in some really interesting ways.
Thanks.
Okay.
Well, good morning, everyone.
My name is Alexandre Naaman.
So, so far this morning,
we've had an overview
of the API in general.
And what I'm going to talk about now
is just how we can use the CI filter
class to produce interesting effects.
So on iOS 6,
we now have 93 built-in filters.
And you can use those -- and if
you're wondering why we have so many,
it's because you can use those,
combine them together in interesting
ways to create effects of your own.
So you can come up with recipes
that don't exist and aren't
built-in and create new effects.
So how can we do that?
Well,
you can actually subclass CI filter.
And this is the same thing
that we do internally.
And in order to do that,
you have to override a few methods,
declare your properties,
set the defaults, et cetera.
And an example of that is,
as I was saying,
we use this internally for certain
of the filters that we provide,
such as CI Color Invert,
which just inverts colors.
And this is the entirety of the
code that shows how you do that.
This is a relatively simple example.
What we're going to do now is go
over six more complicated examples.
And I've got an overview
here of our inputs.
And I'm going to click
and then don't blink.
And we're going to go and see
what all the different effects
we're going to generate today
are and go through each step.
So here we go.
So now we're going to go through each one
of those individually and talk about all
the steps and different filters we use
to create the effects that we see here.
So first things first,
we're going to start with chroma key,
so green screen style process,
where we're going to remove
the background by keying off a
certain color and then blend.
with the background image.
So how are we going to do that?
Well, we're going to create a color cube,
so we're going to use
a CI color cube class,
and we're going to tell it that we
want certain colors to be transparent.
We're going to use that data
that we've just created,
that color cube,
as an input to the color cube filter.
And then we're going to use
source over compositing to blend
the result of our input image,
in this case the picture of me
standing in front of a green screen,
with our background,
the picture of the beach.
So if we start with a color
cube that looks like this,
which is just an identity,
so if we were to use this as a data,
it would just pass the input
image straight through.
It's effectively a 3D color lookup table,
but we wouldn't be modifying anything.
And in order to get the
effect that we're looking for,
what we want to do is remove
all of the green from the image
and make that transparent.
So we're going to want to take a slice,
basically, out of this cube and make all
the alpha values go to zero.
So this is easier to see if we,
instead of looking at
this in RGB color model,
we look at this in HSV,
so U-saturation value,
where we have a cone.
And we're basically going to
take a slice out of this cone.
And make a range of
angles become alpha zero,
so transparent.
So this, if we look at the
resulting cube that we get,
we have basically a wedge that's
been taken out of the cube where
everything that's been taken out is
alpha zero and everything that remains
is alpha one in the original color,
so it just passes through,
but all the green from the image is gone.
So in terms of code,
it's relatively straightforward.
First off,
we're going to allocate some memory.
We've got some limits in terms of size.
We're going to do a 64 by
64 by 64 cube in this case.
And then we're going to populate
the cube by computing the red,
green, blue values.
So basically a simple gradient going
from zero to one in float values.
Now, once we have our RGB value
for a given point,
we're going to convert that to HSV.
And then we're going to use the U value,
so the first component of the HSV,
to determine whether or not that
RGB value is within the range of colors
that we want to make transparent.
And if it is,
we're going to set alpha to zero,
and if it isn't,
we're going to set alpha to one.
And then we populate the actual
RGB values by multiplying by alpha,
because what you put in a color
cube is pre-multiplied alpha values.
Once we have that,
we create some NSData with the
memory that we just allocated.
We create a CI color cube filter.
We then tell the color cube
filter how large it is,
in this case 64,
which is the dimension of our cube.
And we set the NSData as the
input data for our color cube.
Now, in terms of visually how this works,
if we were to create a
CI color cube filter,
we've got our input image and we've
got our color cube that we've created
which has all the green transparent,
we apply that to our input
image and we'll get an image of,
you know, someone standing in front
of a green background but
with the green transparent.
In this case,
we're going to be using gray
and white checkered background
to indicate transparency.
So now that we've got
our transparent image,
we can take that image and use the
CI source over compositing filter,
set that as the input image,
set another image as
the background image,
and the result is the composited
image that we were looking for.
So it's really that easy to create a
brand new effect with built-in filters.
Another example of how
you can use a color cube,
and we'll be talking more about color
cubes in our second session today,
is to do what we call the,
what's often referred to
as the color accent mode,
which is common in digital
cameras these days,
where you just want to
highlight one color.
So once again, if you were to look at the
colors in HSV and say you
wanted to preserve only the red,
you could take the cone and say, well,
I'm going to make everything
except for red be luminous,
so gray, and just preserve the red.
And if you do that,
and you create a color
cube that looks like this,
your resulting image will
be all gray except for red.
So it's quite simple,
and it allows you to do a
lot of interesting effects.
So our next sample,
we're going to show how you can
do a white vignetting effect.
So on iOS, we have a vignetting effect,
but it does the opposite of
what we're trying to do here.
So how would you go about
creating a white vignette?
We have a vignetting effect that darkens.
We don't have a vignetting effect
that kind of creates a halo.
So if we wanted to go from
this image to that image,
how would we do that?
Well, we can do this using
built-in filters once again.
We're going to start by
finding the face in the image.
Faces.
We're going to create a base shading
map using a CI radial gradient centered
on that face that we've just found.
And then we're going to blend that
image with our original input image.
And that's really all there is to it.
So let's look at that in terms of code.
We're going to use a new API that
we haven't talked about so
far today called CI detector.
So we're going to create a
CI detector and we're going to tell
it that we're looking for faces.
Then we're going to ask the detector
to find the features in the image,
our input image,
which will look for the faces,
and it's going to return to us an array.
In this case, we'll just look for the
first face in the image,
so we'll get the CI feature face.
We're going to compute the center.
of the rect that's returned and
create a vector which we'll then
use to create our radial gradient.
So in terms of how that
looks like visually,
we've got our CR radial gradient filter.
We're going to set the input radius to
be something relatively large compared
to the overall size of the image.
The input radius one to something
slightly larger than the radius
of the face that we just found.
input color zero is
going to be opaque white.
So as we go out towards
the edge of the image,
it's going to be completely white.
And input color 1 is going
to be transparent white.
And basically we're going to
transition in between those two
values from the radius 0 to 1.
And the input center is the
face rec that we found earlier.
When we create that,
what we end up with is an
image that looks like this.
And again, the checkerboard pattern
indicates transparency.
The radial gradient which is
centered on the face that we found
and completely transparent around
that radius of 150 and completely
opaque around the larger radius.
Now all we have to do is take
that image and blend it with
our original background using a
CI source over compositing filter.
and we get the result
that we were looking for.
Our next example is going to show
how we can do the tilt shift effect,
which is something that we
showed how to do several years
ago using custom kernels.
And today we're going to show you
how you can do the exact same thing
just by using built-in filters.
So how are we going to do this?
Well,
we're going to start off by creating
a blurred version of the image.
And then we're going to create two
linear gradients and blend them together.
And we're going to composite the
results using blend with mask and
it's going to help us determine
where we want the image to be blurred
and where we want it to be sharp.
So we're going to start
with CI Gaussian Blur,
which is a new filter for iOS 6.
And as David was mentioning earlier,
a lot of people have asked us for it.
And it is very useful for creating
a lot of interesting effects,
including the tilt-shift effect.
So in this case,
we're going to take our input image.
And we're going to blur
it by a certain amount.
It shouldn't say input
background image there.
It should say radius.
And we're going to end
up with a blurred image.
The blurred image is going to be
larger than our original image
because the extents get larger,
so we're going to crop it a little bit
to match the size of our input image.
The next thing we're going to do is
we're going to create the two linear
gradients that I spoke about earlier.
So first things first,
we'll create one that goes
from the top to the bottom.
I'm just going to go through
all these little inputs.
And what we end up here with is a green
image that's completely green and opaque
from the top of the image till we get
to one quarter of the way through it.
And then once we're at that spot,
we get to -- until we get to
halfway through the image,
so 0.5 of the height,
it becomes more and more transparent.
And then completely
transparent after that.
So that gives us a solid,
slightly transparent,
completely transparent gradient.
And we're going to do the same thing,
but starting from the bottom up.
And we're going to use
the same color values.
And I'll talk about why
we use green in a moment.
So now we've got our two gradients.
We're going to combine those
two together using a CI edition
compositing filter that just sets
We use these two images as the inputs
and we end up with our nice linear
gradient which goes from solid green,
transparent,
and then back to solid green.
Once we have that,
we can use the CI blend with masks.
So we've got our three input images.
We're going to use the blurred
image as the input image.
And then we're also going
to use the background image,
the one that we haven't blurred,
our original input image,
set that as the background image.
And the mask image is going to
be the green image that we just
created with the two blends.
And the way this works is
CI Blend with Masks looks at the
green channel to determine from
which image it should be sampling.
So where it's completely
opaque and green,
it's going to sample
from the blurred image.
And where it's completely transparent,
it's going to sample from
the background image.
And it's going to transition in
between those based on the alpha.
So...
With that, we get the result that
we were looking for.
And so it's that easy to
combine these filters together
to get your tilt shift looked.
Okay,
so now let's pretend for some reason
you had to relocate your family due
to some witness relocation program
or something along those lines,
and you wanted to quickly
anonymize all your family photos.
We can do that with
Core Image with relative ease.
And I'm going to show you how to do that.
So first things first,
we're going to create a
pixelated version of the image.
We're going to build a mask
using the face detector to find
all the faces in the image.
And then for each of those faces,
we're going to create another
radial gradient like we did
earlier for the shading.
And we're going to create a mask by
building one on top of the other.
And then we're going to blend the
pixelated image with the original image
using the mask that we've created,
which corresponds to the
circles for the faces.
Let's go over that process in depth.
So first things first,
we're going to create a pixelated
image by using a CI pixelate filter.
Set the input image,
set the scale to something
that we find pleasing,
and we end up with a pixelated image.
The next thing we need to do is
find the faces and create the mask.
So conceptually the way this
works is that once again
we use a CI detector class,
and we ask that detector to find all
the features of typeface in this image.
In this case we're going
to find four images,
and we're going to get rects that
are going to be returned to us.
And for each one of those rects,
what we're going to do is create a
circle that covers that rect completely.
That is going to be our mask.
That's going to tell us where we
want to use the pixelated image.
And again, that's why we use green,
because we're going to be using
a CI blend with mask filter,
which uses the green color component
to determine where to sample from.
So our mask is going to look like this.
Now in terms of code,
and I think this is my last code slide,
what this looks like is we've got
our mask image initially set to nil.
And then we're going to
iterate over all the faces.
We're going to find the center.
for each face, computer radius for it.
And then we're going to
create a radial gradient.
We're using the shortcuts that
David showed us earlier to create
a circle that is completely opaque
green in the center and then
completely transparent outside
of where the face is located.
Once we've created that filter,
we can ask for the CI image from it,
so its output image.
And then if this is the first image,
the first face that we found,
our mask image is that image.
If it isn't,
what we're going to do is composite
the current circle image that
we've just created with the
previous result that we got.
And we just keep doing
that for all the faces.
So we just keep compositing.
And we end up with the mask
that we saw previously.
So finally,
what we need to do is just use
the CI Blend with Mask filter.
And we're going to use our input image.
We're going to set it to be the
pixelated image that we created earlier.
Our mask image is what we just
created with that for loop
iterating over all the faces.
The background image.
This is our original input image,
and when we do that,
we get the desired result.
Now, let's pretend you wanted
to create a transition,
but what exists inside of
Core Image doesn't suit your needs.
So you wanted to go from the image
on the left here to the image on
the right of my boss's family.
How would you go about creating
an interesting transition that
looked like an arcade-style
effect where it's pixelated and
dissolving all at the same time?
We can do that by combining just
a few existing built-in filters.
So, we're going to use a CI Dissolve
transition to blend between
those images and then we're going
to pixelate the result of that
[Transcript missing]
Set our input image to the start image.
Set our target image to the
image we want to end up at.
Use some function for time
that's going to look like this.
It's just a simple ramp
that's been clamped.
And we get our dissolve transition.
So that's the first part of the equation.
The next thing we're going to do is
take the output that we've just gotten.
So we've got our dissolve transition.
We're going to use the
CI Pixelate filter,
and we're going to change
the scale of the Pixelate
Based on time.
So we're going to vary that over time
from zero to one the same way we did
with the transition filter.
And in this case,
we're going to make the pixels go really,
really big, and then we're going to
make them go back down.
So we'll get this kind of big pixel
to small pixel effect that we had.
And we do that,
combine everything together,
we get the result we wanted.
And that went by a little bit too quick,
but anyhow.
Next thing we're going to
do is we're going to take
A video and make it look
like it was old film.
And we're going to do that by
-- this is the most complicated
sample I have -- combining several
different filters and using a lot
of different techniques together.
And it's going to give us this kind of
old film look where we have speckles,
white speckles and kind of dark streaks
and the sepia tone look to the video
that's being processed by Core Image.
So how are we going to do this?
So first things first,
we're going to apply the sepia
filter to our input source.
We're going to create white specs.
We're going to create dark scratches.
And then we're going to
composite everything together.
So first things first,
we use the CI sepia tone filter,
set the input image,
in this case it could be video,
set the intensity to one
to get the maximum effect,
and we get our sepia toned image.
The next thing we're going to do is
we're going to create the white specs,
which are going to kind of
give it that noisy look to it.
And in this case,
we're going to use a filter that
we haven't used so far today
called the CI Random Generator,
which, as David mentioned,
is a generator,
so it doesn't have any input image,
but it generates an output.
And in this case, it generates a very
colorful noise pattern.
But we want white specs.
We don't want colorful noise.
So what we're going to do instead is
we're going to apply Color Matrix to it.
And the result of this color matrix
is going to give us a very faint,
like dark image,
mostly transparent with white specs.
Which looks like this.
And if we were to take the output from
the CI random generator and use an
affine transform to move it over time,
we'll end up with something
that looks like this.
So that's starting to look like
what we want for the first --
Addition to the video that we want.
If we take that and we blend
it over our source image,
Using the
CI Source Over Compositing filter,
we set that as the input image.
And again, it's mostly transparent.
We used it as the background image,
our sepia tone image.
We're going to start getting the
result that we're looking for.
So now we've got our image.
It's got the white specs applied to it.
and the sepia.
The next thing we need to do
is to add the dark scratches.
So in order to do this,
we're going to once again
use CI random generator.
But as I mentioned earlier,
it creates very colorful noise.
And contrary to the other filter
where we were looking for mostly black
transparent and just white specs,
in this case,
we're going to want to create a mostly
white image with just a few dark streaks.
So what we're going to do,
first things first,
is we're going to apply
an affine transform to it.
And you can do this by calling CI image,
image by applying transform
and providing a CG transform,
or by creating a CI affine
transform filter.
So in this case, we're going to apply a
filter that scales this,
the result of the CI random generator
in both the X and Y directions.
And what it's going to give us is
thick pixels and very long pixels.
So we've elongated it by using
a scale in the Y direction of 25
and in the X direction of 1.5.
But it's still very colorful.
So the next thing we're going to
do is apply color matrix to it.
And in this case,
what we're going to do is we're
going to blow out the values
By applying a scale and a bias
vector that's going to make
most of the image disappear,
basically.
So now we've got an image that just has
what looks like some cyan highlights here
and long and streaky cyan highlights.
And then we're going to use a
CI minimum component filter.
And this is really the last piece of
the recipe where what the CI minimum
component filter does is it looks for
the minimum of the RGB values and it
uses that to create a grayscale image.
And if we do that,
we end up with our image with
these black streaks in it,
or dark scratches.
And again,
if we were to take the initial output
from the random generator and if we
were to apply a transform such that we
animate over time in the Y direction,
then these streaks will look
like they're moving up and down,
or actually just down.
And we're good to go in terms of taking
that and compositing it with our already
white specs on top of the CPI image
using the CI multiply compositing,
and we'll get our final result.
And that's all we had to do to create
this relatively interesting effect.
So that's all we have today so
far in terms of filter recipes.
If you'd like additional information,
you can contact Alan Schaefer,
who's our graphics and
imaging evangelist,
at aschaefer@apple.com.
Or you can go to the website,
devforums.apple.com.
We also have another talk
immediately following this talk,
which is going to go more in-depth
into some advanced techniques
using Core Image and how you
can get the maximum performance
out of your application.
And that's all I have for today.
So I'd like to thank you
once again for coming.
And good luck with using Core Image.
Thank you very much.